Patch Notes 1.6 | 3-26-2021 - Co-op Improvements & Run History

Co-Op Changes:
Players now have separate health pools
Healing is still shared between players
Dead players will now respawn with 100 HP at the end of each battle

Quality of Life:
Runs will now be kept if the game crashes/quits unexpectedly!
Maximum Artifacts increased from 48->56. A lot of people have mentioned this and things can get pretty messy and boring with too many artifacts, but here's a small increase, for fun.

Run History:
The last 10 runs will now be tracked and stored in the Statistics Page.
This includes your seed, character and zone reached.

Modding:
Added mod load order/priority, set it in the mod's WorkShopItemInfo.xml under <Priority>

Reva Alt kit:
Soul Link -> Zenith

Other:
Turret Laser spell no longer consumes, mana increased 3->4
Transmission artifact now updates attack damage on weapon cast

I did want to make more changes to co-op but prioritized it being fun to play with a weaker/newer partner. Now they won't be dragging you down, and they can jump back in to help even when they die!


This will be one of the final updates to One Step From Eden... for now. I've learned so much from creating the game, in coding, business, marketing, and more. Thank you for all the support you've shown me throughout the years. Making One Step From Eden was one of the best decisions of my life because of it.

I hope to make more amazing games for you soon.
-Thomas


Patch Notes 1.5 | 12-4-2020

This is probably the biggest content patch since release! 
Though it's still centered more on the health of the game than new mechanics. 

Featuring:
+29 New Spells (Calamity for all Brands!)
+32 New Artifacts
Mod sandbox
Lots of Accessibility settings ("easy" mode, hold movement, readability)
Profiles/Save slots
Pick and Choose Hell Passes
New Saffron Bossfight

It'll most likely be hitting consoles sometime next year.


--NEW Spells--
Absorb
Ambush
Barrier
Cataclysm
Chrono Sphere
Deck Shield
Downfall
Haven
Holy Ground
Inverter
Jackhammer
Jam Shield
Meltdown
Overload
Paragon
Ramjet
River
Salvo
Sawstorm
Shadow Shift
Silo
Sleight
Slice
Spike Strip
Stinger
Sunbeamer
Sunder
Weed Wacker
Wonder


--NEW Artifacts--
Anvil
Bolt Action
Censor Bar
Cobra Care
Cryophage
Curacao
Delta
Golden Cat
Ice Sculpture
Kabob
Life Jacket
Monocle
Multitool
Muzzle Brake
Nerve Gas
Pendulum
Piggy Bank
Replicant
Second Breakfast
Sinkhole
Spike Protein
Survival Kit
Symbiosis
Thermophage
Transmission
Trap Card
Trident
Tutu
Umbrella
Viral Transmitter
Water Wheel
XD-40
Z-Cell


--Spells--

Beacon
Shots: 1->2

Blizzard
Rarity: 2->3
Damage: 10->20

Booster Shot
Poison: 80->120

Bow Snipe
Rarity: 1->2

Carpet Bomb
Damage: 40->120

Counter Strike
Gain 50 Shield and fire a shot -> Gain 50 Shield and fire 2 Kunais

Flurry
Rarity: 2->1

Fracture
Mana Cost: 1->2
Damage: 70->120
Wanted the Flow trigger to be more rewarding

Glitterstorm
Rarity: 3->4

Hailstorm
Damage: 10->20

Hyper Beam
Rarity: 2->3

Jam
Anchor duration: 0.1->0.2

Northwind
Rarity: 1->2

Power Saws
Base damage: 40->100
Spell Power damage multiplier: 20->10
Rarity: 3->4
Mana: 2->3

Prophecy
Now only hits enemy field
Damage: 200->240

Resonate
No longer hits structures
Brand: Convergence->Hexawan

Ring Spells
Mana Cost: 2->1

Shattersaw
Rarity: 1->0

Switchbait
Shots: 2->1

Time Slow
Rarity: 1->2

Twinferno
Damage: 50->60

Waterfall
Fire rate: 0.05->0.15


--Artifacts--

Beret
Health drop: 80%->60%

Candy Wrapper
Rarity: 2->1

Choco Mint Chip
Slow duration on Frost: 4->2.5 seconds

Duel Disk
Jams on Shuffle: 1->3
Rarity 2

Ghost Costume
Invince duration: 7->4 seconds

Ice Floe
Flow Gain: 1->2

Immune System
Shield: 10->20

Meat Shield
Shield on Consume: 20 -> 10

Merit Badge
Rarity: 1->2

Mining Rig
Money: 5->3

Ninjutsu
Chance to add Kunai on hit: 100%->50%

Pet Kitty
Now fires in a cone from current tile instead of front tile making it harder to land all 3 hits on the same target

Phase Plates
Invince duration: 1->0.75 seconds

Resistant Strain
Minimum poison: 10->20

Spellthief License
Heal on Remove: 50->100 HP

Step Drone
Now pierces defense

Soul Food
Max HP: 50->20

Thorn
Spell Power: 5->4

Transcendence
Now reduces Shield Shuffle Decay from 40%->25%

Unicorn Bomb
Damage: 20->40

Uranium
Spell Power 8->5


--Bosses--
Saffron
Boss fight completely reworked
Now attacks with ~40 different pre-programmed spell "combo chains" at 4 different tiers
She also throws her Plushie behind her instead of in front!
And is overall much smarter and scarier!~

Selicy
Special Holiday stuff


--Balance--
Weapons now pierce Defense, this includes Gunner's weapons
Flames no longer pierce Defense
Hell Pass 11 - Evil Hostages have a chance to spawn with normal Hostages instead of replacing them (except for Distress zones where they can replace them)
Storm spells can no longer get the Frost upgrade
Luck for each "None" Focus: 1->2
Improved Kunai range consistency
Spintail enemies now fire less shots so you're not stuck waiting as long
Flower artifact HP Losses rebalanced
Shuffle staleness cap 2->3s
Shuffle staleness amount 0.1->0.15s (increases shuffle time after every shuffle)

--Characters--
Terra: Starting Kit
Mine -> Poison Tails


--Quality of Life--
Added a luck symbol flash on Bunny death
Weapon info can now be viewed on the Deck Screen
Fixed previews for many spells
Assists no longer block movement
Certain dark icons brightened (Monsoon and world icons)
Updated Removal tooltip to reflect that it can remove artifacts and pacts too
Made Serif's dialogue hint more towards not being a true ending after the Gate
Worlds where bosses have been killed will now show up as red in the map and have a skull
Viewable map during the rewards screen


--Settings--
Hold to Skip option
Hold to Move option
Stop Music on Pause Menu
Readability Mode - increases size of card descriptions and hides flavor text

Angel Mode ("easy" mode) - reduces damage taken and enemy/boss speed by a %, increasing by 2% every time you die (max 50%). All achievements can still be obtained this way. Character has a halo while this is on. (Removed the halo you get from saving hostages). It's separated into two sliders and can be toggled on and off at any time.

Hopefully this optional accessibility mode allows more people to enjoy the game without removing all the challenge for it. I liked the idea of making the game slightly easier, the more the player dies, so that they are always making progress!


--Systems--
Profile/Save slots system, Brand and Icon are based on last chosen
Hell Passes are now individually selectable! (The hell pass 14 achievement can be completed with only hell pass 14 active)


--Bug Fixes--
Shield will properly search in the Library
Hell passes can no longer be removed after continuing a run lol


--Modding--
Mod installation speed increased 700% yay!
Extra taunt animation slots for taunt2 - taunt5 (for your custom animations)
Extra triggers, effects, checks, etc.
Auto load mods on startup Checkbox
Min and Max appended to amount values i.e. "10+CurrentCardtridges*10|20/200"


--Sandbox--
Added an xml file "TestZone.xml" for choosing how you want to set up your test environment.
It boots directly into the scene you choose, along with the console and cheat menu being enabled! You can change the enemies and other world variables in Zones.xml. There is also a "developer" sandbox (with the game in debug mode) on the Steam beta branch!
Example path for XML files: "C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\One Step From Eden\OSFE_Data\StreamingAssets\Data"

There's more info at the bottom of TestZone.xml
Join discord.gg/OSFE #modding for more info!


--Hotfix 1.5.1 12-4-2020
Fixed issues with hell pass selection and unlocking
Weapon can no longer be "removed"
Fixed an issue with having the map and accept button assigned to the same button
Reduced pendulum tick reduction from -2->-1.9 so that having two won't cause the tick duration to be 0
Added placeholders in English for some missing translations (these will be updated later)
Added 144hz fps option

--Hotfix 1.5.2 12-5-2020
Fixed missing localization characters
Fixed a bug that would not unlock Hell Mode 1 after beating a normal run
Click Hold to Skip in settings now work properly
Loading flash on startup removed
Fixed tracker laser line dissappearing in consecutive gate fights
Hell passes that were accidentally set when not eligible are now turned off automatically
Fixed map unable to open in rewards screen
Fixed JamShield localization
Removed description requirement for mod update
Fixed silo preview
Changed extra taunt animations for modding to trigger using "taunt2", "taunt3", etc.
Readability mode no longer shows descriptions for locked cards

--Hotfix 1.5.3 12-6-2020
Pull no longer hits pets
OnManaBelow trigger now works with weapons
Artifact hovering is no longer blocked on shop and deck screen
Inelligible hell passes will be properly disabled
Snow boots will no longer trigger on player
Censor bar will no longer trigger on player
Character select screen previews moved to the right
Mod sprites import format set to RGBA32 to preserve quality
Censor Bar now only triggers on Channel Spells, not weapons

Water Wheel
Flow Stacks 2->1

Barrier
Shield 20+10*Flow -> 30+5*Flow

--Hotfix 1.5.4 12-8-2020
Overload no longer roots

--Hotfix 1.5.5 12-9-2020
Fixed music randomly unpausing in menu
Anvil description fixed from 10->13 shield
Water wheel flow amount fixed to give 1 flow after removing 1 from spell cast
Barrier now glows green if you have flow
Added some delays to end of Boss Saffron combos, she now calculates movement right before moving allowing you to outmaneuver her a bit more consistently. Also increased her delay before moving slightly.
Pendulum now decreases poison duration by a percentage so it can be infinitely stacked
Prophecy now hits 6 tiles instead of 4 (2 on player side)
Fixed a bug where the next hell pass would not unlock if the hell pass button was not clicked before the run.
Fixed a bug where a missing translation would cause the game to get stuck (i.e. on pet artifact rewards)
Skulls from world icons will be removed properly on new runs
Gave Boss Saffron pauses between her combos at high tiers
Fix mods not install on profile 2 and 3
Fix a crash when removing a spell and closing menu
Overload can no longer get on hit upgrades since it doesn't "hit"

--Hotfix 1.5.6 12-16-2020
Updated Korean localization missing characters
Attempted to fix a bug where opening the map during reward selection would remove focus from the rewards
Bolt Action no longer triggers on minion kills
Removing Pendulum now works properly
Run in background now attached to Menu Music setting. If you don't want the game to run in background, you can turn off Menu Music.

Menu music will now be muted instead of paused hopefully preventing duplicate playback.
Fixed a bug where hell pass icons would be invisible


--Hotfix 1.5.7 3-4-2020
Minor bug fixes including shopkeeper restock cost not saving properly
Clear votes on sub display cards
Fix continue button hover issue in rewards screen


--Skin Update 1.5.8 3-15-2020
Added Quantum Protocol Hazel Skin, unlocks at level 15


--Ending--
Most of these features came directly from you, the community and I'm happy to finally add them to the game! Thank you for sticking around and coming up with these great ideas!

After the last patch in April, I realized I was pretty burnt out and needed a break from OSFE. I know the extra settings took a while to come out, so I'm sorry for the wait. I still love the game and really enjoy working on it.

What's next?
I've attempted adding online multiplayer but I've decided it will require making a whole other standalone game. I may experiment with that in the future. In the meantime I'm always working on something!

Happy Holidays~
-Thomas

